---
layout:     post
title:      "Posting Gap: A Rambling Return"
date:       2009-11-23 23:05
---

One or two people have probably noticed that I have not posted for a
while. September gone. October gone. Most of November gone. Well, a
lot has been going on, but I am not going to go into details now.

An important role that this blog plays for me is that I post news and
articles that I find interesting here. This serves the dual purpose of
sharing with friends and family and also organizes thoughts and
articles that I find noteworthy. Before posting here, I do record
interesting things that I find, but not in a consistent way. I tag
articles in my RSS aggregator or mark them in some other way. More
often than not, I never see those articles again, but the most
disorganized thing that I do is to record links as drafts in my email
account. During long periods of not posting here, the drafts folder in
my email account swells. The worst property of the draft emails is
that I do not bother including any information about the links that
are pasted there, so I just have many dozen drafts with raw links in
them. Often, I never bother to figure out what the drafts are after
they have been there for a while.

That previous paragraph is kind of funny, since in many other ways I
am very organized with information that I come across. I like to know
that I can find things again.

There is another force (other than simply having a lot going on) that
keeps up the disorganization. Sometimes I hesitate to post something
that I find in the news or on other blogs simply because I feel silly
writing about things that everyone has possibly already seen. That
concern, however, seems irrelevant given my self-centered goal of
organizing my thoughts.

Stopping this rambling post short, I am going to dig out a few of
those draft emails.
