---
layout:     post
title:      Flat Tire Fun
date:       2010-02-14 21:52
tags:       [commute, cycling, mechanical]
---

## Introduction
As I was about to leave for work last Wednesday I noticed that the
front tire of my bike was flat. "No problem", I thought, "just a quick
fix."

This was only the second flat I have had since getting my bike, so
doing this simple task takes a little longer than it should. I was
"happy" to have the opportunity to rehearse the motions at home before
having to do it somewhere else.

My first flat happened within a day or two of getting the bike. The
cause for both flats was that the rim tape was in the wrong
position. For those who do not know what I am talking about, a quick
explanation follows.

## Wheels

A bike's wheel consists of a hub (the thing about which the wheel
rotates), the spokes, the rim, and nipples that connect the spokes to
the rim. The nipples drop in through holes in the outside of the rim
(the outside being the part where the tire and tube go). These holes
are drilled through the rim and have relatively sharp edges; sharp
enough, at least, to wear a hole through the tube. To keep the tube
from deflating due to contact with the holes, some sort of strip is
placed along the trough of the rim.

This strip — rim tape — had moved out of place for both of my flats.

My rim tape is a a sort of plastic that does not seem ideal. It is not
glued down everywhere. Tension is supposed to keep the unsecured
portions in place, but that is where the failures keep occurring. I am
going to investigate this a little more and possibly replace the rim
tape with a more cloth-like tape.

## Extra Trouble

Since I was in a hurry, I swapped in my spare tube with the intention
of patching the other tube at work. When I got my tire back on,
though, I was having trouble with one of the brake pads always
contacting the disc (I have disc brakes on my bike). Before this
episode I was not too mechanically familiar with the brakes.

Prior to exhausting all ideas, I looked down through the gap between
the pads and the disc and noticed a piece of metal that looked
entirely out of place. This gave me cause open the brake assembly and
investigate, which was something I would have been doing sooner or
later with or without cause. Of course, disassembling something
unfamiliar always carries the exhilarating possibility of not knowing
how to reassemble it.

I found two bolts that appeared to hold the thing together and was
amazed at how much they had been tightened. (Note to self: check if
the bolts were tightened to some specified torque and handle as
appropriate. The idea of the brake assembly coming apart during a ride
is unappealing.)

When I finally got the two bolts out, half of the brake came off (as
expected) and then popped into three pieces. Not too bad, but you
never know what you are going to get. The pieces' purposes were pretty
straightforward: the external housing, the brake pad, and a
semi-springy metal piece that serves a role of limiting the motion of
the brake pads. The out-of-place piece of metal that I referred to
above was the semi-springy piece. The issue was that one of the "arms"
had been bent and was between the brake pad and the disc. I am not
sure if it was there before the tire was removed and replaced, but it
seems fairly certain that the squeeky noise coming from the brake
recently was related to this.

Using pliers, I simply bent the part back into its intended
shape. Hopefully that will be the end of that. If that part was
between the disc and brake pad for a while, I suspect the pad may have
worn unevenly. I did not think to investigate this before reassembling
the thing, but I will check it out next time the brake is
disassembled.

I wish I had taken pictures of all of this to make it more compelling,
but I was in a hurry.

## Next Time

Overall, I enjoy this sort of thing. I will, however, be making
changes to make the work environment more efficient.

Having a repair stand will make doing this stuff easier and more fun
in the future. More space would be nice too. Also, a separate [T25
star-shaped
wrench](http://www.parktool.com/products/detail.asp?cat=17&item=PH-T25)
would be handy. I have this wrench on my multi-tool, but it was not
convenient using it through the spokes to adjust the position of the
interior brake pad.
