---
layout:     post
title:      "2018: A Year of Activity"
date:       2019-01-01 23:13
tags:       [dev]
---

In late 2017, I was the manager of a team of infrastructure software
developers. I was having a difficult time at work finding time to
learn and grow technically, which created a deep longing to do more
programming and learn something new. I settled on trying out
[Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/).

I spent a couple weeks during vacation at the end of 2016 learning and
making commits in Rust. After I got into a routine, it ended up
morphing into a sort of personal goal to be active on GitHub every day
in 2018. Here's the outcome:

![My 2018 GitHub activity]({{ site.image_base }}/github-activity-2018.png)

I did something almost every day. If you look closely, you'll see
three unfilled squares. I don't really understand the first one. I am
pretty sure that it was originally green. The second one was a day
that I simply forgot to do something because I spent that evening in a
long conversation with a friend. The unfilled square from December was
a day that I was ill and feeling really poor. I didn't have the energy
to do anything that day.

I made 909 total contributions, by GitHub's count, and that's far
fewer than I would have done if I worked somewhere using GitHub. My
annual activity counts in the years I worked at [Walk
Score](https://www.walkscore.com/) eclipse 909, for instance. However,
most of the past year's activity was done after hours, and I'm very
satisified with what I accomplished.

Most of contributions were to
[rust-lang/rustfmt](https://github.com/rust-lang/rustfmt) (Rust's code
formatting tool),
[rust-lang-nursery/highfive](https://github.com/rust-lang-nursery/highfive)
(code that helps ensure that PRs in Rust's various repositories are
assigned to someone), this blog (which was moved to GitHub Pages in
2018), and several personal repositories. The personal repositories
included "learning repositories" where I committed code when doing
exercises and some community helper repositories for Rust. Those were
[davidalber/rust-conduct-conformulator](https://github.com/davidalber/rust-conduct-conformulator)
and
[davidalber/rustfmt-travis](https://github.com/davidalber/rustfmt-travis). Beyond
that was a smaller number of contributions to a variety of
repositories (Rust-related and otherwise), some PR reviews, and a
relatively small amount of activity on Walk Score.

While I didn't game the system (at least by my standards), it is
easily gamed. Someone interested in "farming" green squares, could
create a bogus repository and just make some useless commit once a
day. I'm sure we could dream up more creative ways to farm, but you
get the idea. My main point here is that you probably shouldn't read
much into someone else's green boxes. It was a personal accomplishment
for me, and that's good enough.

The closest I came to cheating was to update dependencies in a project
(often the blog) on days that I had trouble finding time to do
more. That was still in bounds for me, if done infrequently, but
that's about as close to useless that I consider legal.

I got a lot out of this year of activity. First and foremost, it gave
me the motivation to do something almost every day. I started
contributing to other projects for the first time, and I satisfied my
need to learn. I also wrote a lot more on this blog in 2018 than I had
in many years or perhaps ever.

The biggest downside of the box-a-day goal is that it created more
motivation to focus on smaller tasks. It was difficult to routinely
find time to work on projects on third-party repositories that
required several days to pull together because I also needed to make a
contribution each day. I did manage to put together projects like that
in some instances, but there was always the push to get the daily
activity.

Of course, a bigger project that takes several of my evening work
sessions to complete _is_ daily activity, but the little green boxes
don't necessarily see it that way.

So what about 2019? Just due to routine I'm sure I'll still be filling
a lot of boxes for a while, but I'm not going to make it an explicit
goal to get activity each day. I want to be active, but I don't want
to find myself awkwardly limited from working on bigger projects
because I can't do that and make boxes green. Also, I do actually have
interests outside of making contributions on GitHub. I may pursue
those sometime!
